Time is a tricky subject to begin to wrap one's mind around. 

* It seems relative. It's the movement of particles from one particular point on a 3d plane to another with respect to how much time has passed on some measuring device (Clock).Realizing the fact that the 3d space itself may exist in a higher dimensional space. 
* Well, in theory one could say : If we do not measure it, it does not exist. But it does exist! We know this, because we have to reset the clocks on satellites in orbit. This is on the topic of [time dilation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_dilation). The way I understand it, this is tied with the topic of [special relativity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special_relativity). 

The example that comes to mind is that of the [twin paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twin_paradox). Whereby a twin A leaves earth on a spaceship travelling at or close to the speed of light. The twin travels the entire breadth of the Galaxy for the next 40 some years. When the twin finally returns back to earth, some 60,000 years have passed. Twin B is long gone and it's a very different landscape. [Source : The following article via Scientific American](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/according-to-current-phys/). 

So, let's slow this down and think about it. 

Twin A is on a construct that is moving really fast. The elements involved and the way we understand our reality to date, are: Space (3d plane - potentially in a higher dimensional space), time passing by slowly (relative to twin B), gravity, moving at higher speeds and impact on cellular clock.

Twin B is on planet earth. The elements involved are: Space, time passing by as it is or passing by faster (relative to twin A), Gravity is warping space time, the moon's gravity is also warping space time (not sure how that translates into time). The earth is going around the sun and again the sun's gravity is warping space time. It is possible that the higher dimensional space-time is warping all around objects in a 3-d plane. However this is just a thought when occured to me when I noticed a three dimensional object moving in a four dimensional space. There is also that bridge between quantum mechanics and gravity, something we are still working on figuring out. I think it's called [Quantum gravity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_gravity) and if space and time are interlinked, then quantum mechanics must have a role to play with time dilation. However, I am barely holding onto this particular sub-thought here. 

The mathematical equations seemed alien to me. But then I found the [following video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7m2KK8rOTBE) and it just started making a little bit more sense.

Okay, so time actually exists. The question is what can we do with it. What should we do with it. 

Originally, I was actually thinking about paradoxes and how reality is really structured. I wasn't necessarily thinking of reality (many world's interpretation, multiverse e.t.c) or loops in time. I was curious, if something was indeed changed in the past (say some higher dimensional being entered this space and went back and made a change), then how would those changes manifest in the future.
