At some point, during the past 5 years, I identified five areas that should be the area of focus for me. Historically speaking, I have spent a lot of time working in the technology industry. And so it would not a surprise that I wanted to enable:
- Mechanisms via which we could enable newer constructs for enabling computation. There is a platform component to it and then there is the human computer interaction element. This is a very rich and super interesting area, as we are talking about the prospect of interacting with advanced computational engines via direct access in a completely safe way. 
- I also love big/mega projects. Projects which could demonstrably help improve our lives in a quality sense. 
- There are people in my family living and they are living in others parts of the world and there are no healthcare services available. And/or you have to pay in order to be able to access healthcare services and the wages are not very high. There are two areas where these services are not available. For the physiology and for mental health. But they should really be one area, with nutrition and the overall environment also contributing greatly to how minds are structured. The body and the mind are systems, we get what we put in them. If we abuse our bodies by putting foods high in sugars/carbs/trans-fat then there are going to be negative consequences. I literally see this everyday and it is very depressing. Lack of affordable healthcare and dental work is something that really bothers me. My means of dealing with this challenge is to learn more about the healthcare system in general, learn about innovations that could change the way we provision the healthcare system on a global basis. I was thinking about these issue prior to covid19. In a North American sense, I have always been a supporter of enabling healthcare on a universal basis. As well, coming up with suggestions and ideas on how the costs could be reduced substantially, whereby we put structures and mechanisms in place in order to continually improve upon the quality. I think we are going to look back in time and wonder why we let our perceived differences stand in the way of collaborating in order to work towards helping reduce human and animal suffering. 
- Okay, there were more than 5 areas. 

But then I meditated on my visions and goals a bit. And I stared at this list of 60 or so goals that I had set. 

Then I thought about the past 7 years and how I have only been a weekend dad. Meaning, a dad that is only available every other weekend. Not even every weekend. Definitely, not everyday. I also had some mental health issues. So I went for therapy. I stuck with therapy for 3 years and counting. (With a break in between). As of the past 1.5 years, I have only missed one session. I think we have multiple minds making up this hallucination of what we categorize as a single mind. If a physiological body is made up of cells, then the mind is made up of memories. The connections between these memories impact everything, including behaviour rolling up into cognition. I think we are largely on an unconscious autopilot and if there are memories impacting our cognition, then we may not be entirely aware of this. So, going for therapy has been very beneficial for me. It is a foundational stepping stone that is and will continue to assist me in becoming a better parent and in serving other roles, in a manner whereby I gain energy and contribute positive energy. 

At some point, it started to hit me. I was working very hard to create a better future at the expense of not being here in the present. Plus, the quality of my life/living conditions is not very good and has not been very good. Without going into all the details.

That being said, all of this is completely my fault. 

Plus, there were a lot of things that I had to change. This change in the wider domain of habit formation and neuroplasticity, takes time. 

So after this longer period of introspection, I decided to: 
- Redirect a majority of my activity towards becoming a better person (in a quantified sense). As well, as work towards becoming a better parent. A parent who is aware and present everyday. A parent who is there.  I've been able to bring about a ton of changes. There was not one or two things I did here. A big part of what I did was to wake up and put in consistent effort towards improvement in a quantified sense. I wanted to improve upon an area and I leveraged the combined power of 'consistent effort directed towards a cause' and 'measuring the positive outcome that I was looking at'. I am now leaner, calmer, more at peace ++ than I have ever been before. If I can say so myself, I have enabled the foundation for a beautiful mind. Before, the poison had got to me. The matrix had me. I was going through these loops of unconscious patterns in my mind and the unconscious patterns that were being re-inforced by the wider environment. But, as I brought my focus back to myself and learned to sit in silence. This is where the transformation began. I began to learn and appreciate myself. I learned to go back to the things that I found beautiful and interesting. Indeed, there is great pleasure in finding things out! 
- Thinking about enabling outer space/newer realities is something I love doing. We are going to open up outer space! We are going to have these wonderful gardens and levitating ones as well! Tourists going to off-world habitats within 15 years (or less). We are going to be working collaboratively towards opening up outer space. Most of our produce is going to be grown either directly in space, on non-terran settings or smack in the middle of the desert. Outer space is going to power the majority of growth for the forseeable future. There are going to be enough resources available to help support all the needs of every human in a completely sustainable way. Every human will be living the life of someone who makes $10 million dollars in earnings today. At the same time, we should also and already be thinking of making the leap to the next star system in a safe and ethical sense. What if we find life on other exoplanets? What will we do in such a situation? As well, how will we choose to be, in a world where all sorts of complex and intricate patterns can be recreated. Including our mind or minds. 

I guess a lot of things come down to, how you lived and how you treated yourself and others. 

There is negativity in our construct. In our environments. This negativity gets to us. Sometimes it sets up and takes up space in more clusters of synapses. 

People being mean and hurtful towards each other. As well, unconsciously hurting themselves in the process of doing so. At some point in our lives, we have all been susceptible to what Steve Jobs used to refer to as the poison. This poison negatively impacts our minds, our bodies (creating disease), our relationships and our environments. 

Coming back to myself and what I started with. I narrowed down the 60 goals to 3 goals. Based on the feedback that I received last month, all three of these areas are big areas. So it has been suggested to me that I should focus on one out of the three. And after some thinking/deliberation, I thought what is the one area, that if I chose to work on it, will also get us traction on the other areas that I have identified. It appears that that vision for me is to help set the foundation for terraforming Venus on a finite time scale. Our planet cooled down over a relatively long stretch of time. How can we do that in 5 to 15 (earth) years on Venus?

Also, there are two areas in particular, where if we do a good job. The gains could be unbelievably spectacular! Again, based on the feedback received, I will have to let go of these areas and let someone else think about and work on these areas. I can be there to assist in a limited fashion. 

We should be mindful that the design of these constructs is well thought out. Because if these proposed systems(distributed systems/swarms)/constructs go wrong or start going in a destructive direction then it could also be very bad. In these particular scenarios, we have to think about how to avoid the situations whereby the  start going in a direction that will be to the detriment of the many. But the way I see it, the need to have distributed teams being scaled up rapidly is something that is going to be felt very acutely. And it's best to invest in such constructs now. Regarding, breakthroughs, I think we will need to develop mechanisms that allow us to synthesize the gist of complex systems and roll it up to detailed simulations. I am not 100% sure of what I am proposing here. Anyhow, here are these very two areas.  
- Harnessing the collective power of the crowds in order to solve the bigger set of problems. Historically speaking, I have spent a bit of a time thinking about this. Feel free to check out my Youtube page [@adeelnkhan](https://www.youtube.com/user/adeelnkhan/videos) and let me know if there is anything on there that piques your interest. And/or any questions that you have. In particular and if you are reading this, then I would encourage you to check out the video by the title of ['Idea : Dynamic Scalability of Teams v 1.0'](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e8NHGNadIhg)
- I have reason to believe that we are going to see breakthroughs in multiple domains in the next 15 years. Scientific discovery is a global endeavour and scientific discovery has been powered primarily by taxpayers. Access to these resources should be made available in a democratic manner vs a handful of people having access to radical/truly transformative technology. 

With that being said, these two areas are now yours to think about and develop upon. I can help answer targetted questions (in these two domains). 

Deep down inside, we already know what is good and wholesome in a universal sense. And a lot of it has to do with bringing about changes related to oneself. 

If you are taking consistent steps towards changing yourself, then you are changing the universe. And that, my friends, is powerful. 

To adventure & fellowship! With gusto & enthusiasm!
